I first met Adriano in 1995 while I was doing my PhD in Physics at the Université de Montréal.
I had never seen anyone before give a talk with such passion and enthusiasm, which was absolutely inspiring.
And he was not afraid to make bold statements! I still remember that he said something along the lines of ``The analysts are the bad guys, who cares about convergence?'', which truly resonated with me as a physicist.

Adriano was always extremely generous and enthusiastic about the work of young researchers, and his encouragement about my work was a huge boost to my morale. One time I was in a new office and Adriano was looking for me.  I can still hear his voice asking "Où est Lapointe? Où est Lapointe?".  Nothing can be better than having someone of his stature making you feel like you are special  (as many have shared during his online tribute, he had a remarkable ability to make you believe in yourself).

But Adriano's generosity went far beyond just words of encouragement. The following year, he invited me to UCSD for I.G. Macdonald's lectures on double affine Hecke algebras. I stayed at his home, where I had the chance to meet his wife, Diane, who has always been incredibly kind to me, and his lovely daughter, Gabriela.  There was instant familiarity with Adriano.  He installed me in his office, where we worked in the mornings. And then we spent the afternoons working at the beach.  At some point, I even went with him to pick up I.G. Macdonald at the airport!  

Adriano's influence on my career and research was profound. I spent the second year of my postdoc at UCSD (he convinced me to first spend one year in Marne-la-Vallée). At that time, there was great excitement and development about Macdonald polynomials and  the $n!$ conjecture. I remember being especially thrilled about his Science-Fiction paper with Fran\c{c}ois Bergeron, which posited that the intersection of $k$ Garsia-Haiman modules had dimension $n!/k$ (the idea of understanding Macdonald polynomials through refinements has motivated me ever since). While I never formally collaborated with Adriano, I learned so much from him, especially in the art of ``manipulatorics'' that he mastered like no one else. 

I also always felt his genuine excitement for my work, and  his support often went beyond simple encouragement (he dedicated for instance countless hours shaping our first paper with Alain Lascoux and Jennifer Morse on atoms, contributing invaluable insights to the introduction and overall presentation). My time at UCSD also meant a lot of time working at the beach (which I never fully enjoyed) and a lot of dinners at his house (which I always greatly enjoyed).

I saw him less often after I moved to Chile in 2002.  He visited Talca only once (he was very pleased that the scenery reminded him of his youth in Tunisia, but above all he loved the avocados!). I remember a poignant moment during a 2006 visit to San Diego. He sadly confided that he was afraid that the end was coming, that he wouldn't be able to do mathematics forever as he wished. I was extremely moved, yet I couldn't find any words of comfort. Forever was probably a lot to ask, but never did I imagine that he would keep doing first-rate mathematics for more than 15 years.  It seems that his work  even blossomed from that point on, and he belonged to a growing community working on fascinating problems in $(q,t)$-combinatorics such as the shuffle and Delta conjectures. Even more amazingly, he had 7 or 8 PhD students in a row getting NSF postdoctoral grants while he was in his 80's and 90's.

I have been fortunate to have met some incredible people, but Adriano was in a league of his own. Everything about him was larger than life. His energy, his enthusiasm, his passion, his humor, his cooking. I especially enjoyed my conversations with him as he had such a unique perspective  on both life and  mathematics (as well as some of the best stories I have ever heard!). On a deeper level, he was the mathematician that I most wanted to impress, and I will terribly miss this driving force.