Of course, when thinking about Adriano, countless dinner stories come to mind. He was passionate about life, and it was around the making and enjoyment of food that one got to know him more deeply. From stories of his childhood to tales about mathematics, Adriano was an open book filled with fascinating plots and anecdotes.

I always felt that Adriano was part of my family—and that I was part of his. 

[Insert Picture: Adriano at my cottage near Mont Tremblant, Quebec. We would often gather where there is water.]

Slowly, through these wonderful dinners, I was introduced to some of the most influential mathematicians of the time! I still remember the day Schützenberger visited UCSD and Adriano wanted to cook dinner for the master. At the time, he was in transition between houses, so he used my apartment to cook. I was incredibly intimidated to host Schützenberger—this was quite something for me. And I must say, it was the first time I felt that Adriano himself was also a little bit intimidated. Perhaps he even expressed it more than he felt, just to make me feel at ease. I wouldn’t be surprised—this would be so in line with his nature.

Yes, this was a wonderful life! But somehow, mathematics was always there—woven into everything. It is through mathematics that I discovered a very different mind. I remember him going through pages of computations. Sometimes I would follow line by line, only realizing at the end the scope of what we had done. I would always marvel at that moment—“How did he do it?” And again, he would make me feel comfortable, point to something I had done that he found wonderful.

I saw him get so excited about what those around him had accomplished, especially us—his students. In fact, that’s how he recruited me to study in San Diego in 1987. We had worked on some small representation theory problems in Montreal, and since I had solved a minor question, he got all excited and convinced me to give up my plans to go into physics and instead study with him at UCSD.

I am sure many of his students will recognize themselves in these stories.

Thank You Adriano

