(1)  A reason to go to UC San Diego for a PhD:
That man had fire,
That man had culture
That man had passion
That man sparked electric energy
And I could learn mathematics from that man.
And that, after all, was the point.

(2) In graduate school, I failed my quals for the nth time.  
The rules said I had to be kicked out out of the PhD program.
Garsia rose like a great Durga,
riding a tiger and wielding weapons with many arms,
fighting for my cause.  
It didn’t make him many friends among his colleagues, but he won.
I didn’t get kicked out of graduate school and
my mathematics career had another chance.
I was immensely immensely grateful,
but never dared to bring it up
for fear that Durga might rise again.

(3) One Sunday I came up the elevator in the math building.
The elevator door opened and  I could hear yelling down the hall.  
In trepidation and curiosity I edged my way hesitantly toward the commotion.  
As I got closer I realised that it was Adriano (a world expert in Schur functions)
in Jeff Remmel’s office (another world expert in Schur functions)
screaming ``What’s the definition of a Schur function!!”  
I slunk cautiously and quietly to the stairwell and went quickly down the stairs.
I learned an important mathematical lesson that day:
On Sundays and Wednesdays,
the definition of a Schur function might be different.
It has been a very useful lesson in my work since that time.

(4) Garsia was always happiest when you were engaged and working
together with him on what he was working on.
I listened avidly and intensely but I worked on other things.  
One of my greatest successes in mathematics was
when I  managed to get Garsia to work,
for about 20 hours, on what I was working on.  
I had given a talk in the seminar, and he got interested
and spent the evening and the next morning
working through what I had presented,
amplifying and processing it from his own point of view.    
The next afternoon he gave me two hour lecture explaining
how it could all be “derived from scratch”.  
He ended the session with an apology
that he couldn’t possibly be pulled away any longer
from his really important work on kicking boxes
(it was the time of Garsia-Procesi modules).  
And then he started another long lecture on kicking,
which got interrupted, because
the sun was getting low,
the beach was getting cold,
and it was time for Garsia to go home and cook dinner.

(5) Wonderful memories of cooking and dinners
outside on the back patio of Garsia’s house.  
While barbecuing, Adriano would tell stories of the farm in Tunisia —
cooking over the open fire,
finding unexploded bombs left over from  WWII around the property,
and squeezing the roasted eggplants and peppers
so that the soft juicy interior  oozed out of the skin and
mixed with the  roasted garlic that had been extracted from the coals.  
We would eat well and  thoroughly
(even for a young graduate student),
while listening to stories of life and
trying not to get distracted by the beautiful sunset
and evening twilight, looking over the bay,
the night lights of the city of San Diego,
the ocean and the shining moon.
Since that time, Tunisian roasted vegetable sauce remains
a staple in my family’s household - over pasta, over sandwiches, over anything.

(6) The phone rang at 7am on Saturday morning.  “Arun, are you up?”
(Like any proper graduate student
I had been planning to sleep until 1:30pm after a late night out.).
Before I could muster an answer, the voice continued:
“I’ve been waiting for hours until it was a suitable time to call,  
you must come over right away, it’s fantastic, I have to tell you all about it”.
I knew that meant that there was a wonderful breakfast in store for me
and a couple of hours of exciting mathematics explanations.  
“I need to take a shower, but then I’ll be right over”,
and sure enough 45 min later,
I was enjoying an aromatic double espresso, croissants and eggs and fruit and cheese
and listening to the expostulations of how to modify Macdonald polynomials
into the most fantastic object ever observed by humans.

(7) 30 years later Adriano wrote to me a typical message about a paper I had recently sent him:
"I have tried to read the papers you sent me
unfortunately they were not written for me...
I need more definitions,
I could not even figure out what Macdonald polynomials you are involved with..

I only work with the symmetric group case and
even in that case
I work only with the modified ones...

I have enough beautiful open problems in that case to work with
to start getting involved with conjectures in more general cases.

Still I wanted to see to what extent your world was connected to mine..

Can you tell me at least what Macdonald polynomials your paper is concerned with?“

I responded 6 months later:
"Dear Adriano,
So, in your last email to me you gave me a problem.
I am very slow and it took me some time to work it out in a simple way.
I’m still old fashioned and I wrote a handwritten letter.
The scan is attached below
(I’ve also sent the original to your home address.)

I’ll be interested to hear if you have some thoughts.”

His email response came the next day:
"Dear Arun,

Thank you for your great email!!!

I have read your very impressive hand written letter in great detail.

I am specially amazed by your hand calculations at the end of your letter...

Do not short change yourself, by saying that you are slow to get things done...
Speed is not essential, specially if it is not supported by persistence.
There is a famed fable by Lafontaine "le lievre et la tortue”.
The tortue wins the race, and not the lievre, since she is more persistent.

I wish very much I could get you interested in working in some of the open problems in my area.
You are getting very close indeed,
closer than you have ever been…
but not quite yet. “

Garsia was always happiest when you were engaged and working together with him on what he was working on.
It was, in so many ways, the most fantastic, amazing and thrilling way to tantalise your mind.

