Remembering Adriano Garsia 
by Anders Björner
July 8, 2025
 
 
Adriano Garsia was my friend. I was proud that he often referred to me as his ”mathematical brother”. 
 
Adriano started research in analysis in the 50s, as a student of Charles Loewner and Marcel Riesz, who were both at Stanford at that time. His proof of the mean ergodic theorem from 1955 is considered by many the best way to understand that theorem. In the 70s, Adriano moved on to combinatorics, more precisely algebraic combinatorics, where he soon was recognized as one of the leaders in the field.
 
Adriano and I started talking about combinatorics when we first met at an AMS general math conference in Columbus, Ohio, in 1978. His enthusiasm for combinatorics was contagious, and our conversation continued at UCSD a few months later – what was to be one of many visits. His favorite ”seminar room” was under a parasol at the beach in Del Mar, where even the most intellectual Parisian mathematician succumbed to balancing his notebook on a towel filled with sand. I especially appreciated that coffee breaks were replaced by a pause to ride the waves on a boogieboard! This is an excellent way to clear one’s mind – I can recommend trying it.
 
Adriano’s beach seminars produced beautiful results. Among them is his work in 1977 (with Michelle Wachs) on optimal binary trees, and the proof in 1993 (with Mark Haiman) of the n! conjecture. Of lesser importance but dear to my heart, was the expository paper on Cohen-Macaulay posets that I wrote with Adriano and Richard Stanley in 1982. 
 
While we can acknowledge Adriano’s contributions to mathematics, how does one capture in a few words the enthusiastic spirit of this man?
 
Adriano’s students bear witness to the fact that he was a very inspiring teacher, always full of ideas, always asking questions.  His enthusiastic style of mentoring encouraged everyone to believe in their abilities. The gratitude of Adriano’s students will be his legacy.
 
Adriano was a first-class story teller. I remember a colloquium dinner at UCSD where Saul Bellow was present. People were in awe to be in the company of a Nobel laureate. But also Bellow himself had reason to be impressed.  The next day he thanked Adriano profusely for the captivating stories he had shared about his childhood in Tunisia and adolescence in Rome during the second world war.
 
Adriano showered his family and friends with his generosity and kindness. On one visit to UCSD, he handcrafted the wood furniture for an unfurnished house he’d rented for my family in Del Mar. And he helped us evacuate this house and move in with him when there was a tsunami warning! 
 
Finally, let me say that Adriano was at the core a passionate and proud Italian. This flavored his life and his cooking (his secret was adding handfuls of salt to the spaghetti water!).  Only espressos and speedos, never American coffee or beachwear.
 
I will remember Adriano not only as a mathematician, but for who he was as a person. Adriano was a huge figure in my life. I miss him dearly. 

