I got to know Adriano when I was seeking my first permanent position after being a postdoc.  He ended up recruiting me to UCSD, where I stayed for 10 years before moving to Berkeley.  That period, and after, was for me a time of wonderfully fruitful collaboration with Adriano and others in his circle.

Adriano and I both attended the combinatorics program at the Mittag-Leffler institute during the winter quarter of 1992, my first year at UCSD.   Adriano's wife Diane and young daughter Gabriella were there with him.  After a while, when the grey Stockholm weather (so far from what he grew up with in Tunisia!) had begun to drive Adriano crazy, he announced that he was taking his family to Rome for a week, and that I should come too.  That was when he introduced me to Claudio Procesi, and taught me to drink espresso.  It was the first of several trips to Italy with Adriano and sometimes with Diane and Gabriella as well.  

Another time, after a conference in honor of Adriano's 70th birthday in Taormina (at a hotel on the beach, of course), the four of us made a driving tour the whole length of Italy and on to Avignon and the TGV to our flights home.  Adriano loved company, knew and loved Italy, and loved showing places he loved to others: Sicily and Taormina, Sorrento and the Amalfi coast, Pompeii, Rome, Pisa, Fiesole, the Cinque Terre (this last was new to him, as I recall, and all of it was new to me).  The whole excursion was a fabulous experience.  We got on well together, with just one quirk---both Adriano and Diane were prone to car sickness.  Things were fine when Adriano drove, as the driver doesn't feel it, and Adriano had learned to make adjustments to keep Diane happy, but naturally I needed to share the driving, especially since Diane was uncomfortable driving on Italian roads.  So I was given two instructions: (1) take all curves very slowly, and (2) never touch the brakes!

It would be impossible to relate here all of Adriano's extraordinary talents.  Of course, everyone who knew him remembers the long conversations over amazing meals that he would cook.  He was also a maker of other things physical as well as mathematical.  His study upstais at the house in La Jolla was filled with bookcases and a wrap-around desk of his own construction; later he built a large gazebo in the backyard for eating outdoors, hiring day laborers to help with the work, and communicating with them in some hybrid of their Spanish and his Italian.  The seminar room in the UCSD math department having had insufficient blackboards originally, he built two new large ones on sturdy movable stands, which were still in use the last I knew.

As personalities and collaborators, he and I were an odd match: Adriano was the epitome of gregariousness, while I tend to be solitary.  Whenever the weather was good, he would set himself up in the afternoon at La Jolla shores or Del Mar beach, with his towels, folding chair, umbrella, bag full of math, and students; I didn't like to work in the sand, and would only join him there occasionally.  The way Adriano would describe our working style, he was the optimist and I was the pessimist.  He would come up with one idea after another, thrilled every time to believe that this new idea must be the key to solving whatever we were trying to solve; I would then search for an example in which it wouldn't work.  This however turned out to be an excellent way to collaborate, for when you open many doors, then shut the ones that lead to blind alleys, you eventually find the door that leads to the place you want to get to.

