I met Adriano at the UCSD open house in 2011. From this one meeting, I knew I wanted him to be my PhD advisor. I am so grateful for the time I got to spend with him, and I hope the stories below can show a small fragment of what made him such an amazing person.

According to Adriano, doing math was the solution to all of life's problems, and he couldn't imagine that anyone would feel differently if they gave math a try. When a friend announced he and his wife were getting divorced, Adriano decided to teach the wife some math. He said that doing math would make her happy and then they wouldn't need to get a divorce.

He truly believed that anyone could succeed at math with the right attitude. He often told a story about redoing his driveway. Rather than pay a crew to demolish the old one, he threw a party for faculty and students. He invited everyone to have a turn using the jackhammer. Many would try for a minute or two and then give up. But some stuck with it and kept hammering, eventually breaking through the concrete. The students who stuck with it, Adriano claimed, were the ones who later wrote the best PhD theses.

He was optimistic, proactive, and resourceful, tackling anything that caught his interest with determination. He taught himself how to cook without the guidance of recipes, based only on the memory of how his mother’s food had tasted in his childhood. He learned programming while teaching it, back when the UCSD Computer Science department was new and in need of instructors. He said many times that teaching something was actually the best way to learn it yourself.

During my first year, Adriano's bad back prevented him from standing for a whole class. So, he invited me to go up to the board instead. He told me what to write and asked me questions. We filled the class with a mix of lecture-by-proxy and Socratic dialogues. We ended up doing this together for all his graduate courses, and he continued the same way with his next student. He was right – this was an excellent way for me to learn, and it gave me a unique perspective on how to teach mathematics too.

Adriano is one of my favorite speakers. His math talks were chaotic, passionate, and inspiring. When he made slides, he always included colorful diagrams and animations. Even when talking about something for the fiftieth time, he would still get visibly excited, practically jumping up and down on the punchlines. His enthusiasm was irresistible and drew countless others to work on the problems that he loved.

When I started graduate school, Adriano was already in his 80s. Some people thought I was crazy to choose such an old advisor. But the people who said this had never met Adriano. Even with a bad back and a walker, anyone who knew him couldn't really think of him as old. The idea that he may retire soon was ridiculous. He was full of life, and full of passion for math and food and music and travel. When he did eventually retire – many years after I graduated – he kept doing mathematics, working with students, swimming in the ocean, cooking delicious meals, and living his life with joy.